So here is our app in its current state
and as I mentioned, I want to have multiple pages up here, different parts in the app between which I can
switch, for example I want to have the main page which simply lists the posts but that part, that page
where we actually add a new post, so this card here,
I want to outsource this to a different page and I also then want to enable editing of the posts so
that we can connect this edit button to do something useful.
So step by step,
let's start by adding multiple pages here, as I said, we'll have the starting page with posts here and I
will add one other page where we can create and edit posts.
For that, we need the angular router, right now we got our posts area with the post create in
the post list component,
now we could load these components on seperate pages. To do that,
I'll add a new module on the root level of my angular application, next to the app module,
I will create a new file and I will name this file
app-routing.module.ts.
Now theoretically, that name is up to you but it is a convention to name that file which manages the angular
routes like this,
so the top level file which does that, so the app routing module and in there, we will create and export
a normal class,
so normal class which is named app routing module.
Now this will become an angular module
and in case you don't know, angular modules are basically building blocks angular analyzes to find out
which features your app uses
and we could absolutely define our routes in the normal app module.
It's just a good practice to not put everything into this file but to split our logic across multiple
files and to for example put all the routes setup, the route config into a separate file which we then
import into our main app module.
So in the app routing module, I will decorate this class with the ngModule decorator because it is an angular
module which we're creating here and there,
I want to use another feature of the angular package and that other feature will be the router module.
The router module is imported from @angular/router and as the name suggests, this module helps us with
routing, it actually enables the angular router and it's able to handle a route configuration and
therefore let the angler router do its job. Without that module,
we can't use the angular router.
Now what is the angular router? I'll come back to that and I'll come back to how angular routes connect
or don't connect to our backend routes,
for now let's continue with creating some routes and what are routes to begin with?
Well routes are simply javascript objects here where we define for which url,
which part of our app should be presented.
We therefore create a new constant, may be named routes, that name is up to you though which is of type
routes and that type is also imported from the angular router package.
Now this constant actually simply holds an array, an array of javascript objects and each object
has to have a certain structure,
it needs to have a path property. This defines for which part after our domain we want to load a certain
page and if the path is empty as it is here, this simply means the main page,
the root page, the starting page,
so our domain slash
nothing, so in our local setting, localhost 4200
slash
nothing,
this will load this route.
That's our path here,
we then have to define what should get loaded
and here I want to load a component which I do with the component property and then we pass the type
of the component
we want to load.
This means that we need to import it here.
So for example if I want to load my post list component here, my IDE helps me by automatically importing
the post list component from the posts folder and there the post list folder and then from the post
list component file without the extension but make sure that you add
this import.
Now we get this first route defined,
we can now also add a second route here, path and this route could now be the create route,
so maybe we want to create new posts with the /create path.
Now important,
you don't add /create here, you just add create and now this what become active whenever we visit
our domain,
so in our case localhost4200/create.
Then this route would get active
and here we can simply say that we want to load the post create component and also import that of course.
Now this is our very simple route config,
we've got two routes,
the root route which loads our list of components, list of posts and the create route which well loads
that create component.
Now we just need to inform the angular route here module about our routes and we do that by first of all
importing with the imports statement in the module, by importing the router module into this angular module.
So we add imports router module and now here we have to call a method this module provides for root.
This takes our root route config, so the routes constant we define here here. Now the angular router
is aware of our routes,
now to be able to add it to our app module which is the main module of our app and the module with which
our app gets started, we have to export this configured router module. So we add the exports array here
and then router module and now we can use this router module with our router configuration
outside of this angular module here. And we do that in the app module, here we simply add our router
module, maybe below the browser module,
here add the app routing module.
Now my IDE again automatically added an import here so make sure to add this import too, pointing at the
app routing module file
and with that added, we can now use the angular router with our configuration here and we do so by marking
a place where angular should load the active routes and for that, I'll go into my app component template
and here,
right now we always include the create and the list component above each other.
Now I want to have neither, instead either of the two should be loaded through the angular router.
So I will delete the two selectors here and instead we need to provide a hook for the angular router
where it can render its content and this hook is created with the router outlet directive which is provided
by the angular router package and we can use it since we have the router module imported into our angular
module, indirectly through the app routing module.
So now this is enabled,
if we now save this
the app should reload, hopefully without errors, here it is and now it reloads here too and we are on
the route list page. Now to access the part where we can create routes, we have to access localhost4200
.
/create and now we still have the toolbar because that is shared,
right,
it's here, part of the app component,
the routing hook is then inside of the main block.
So we always have the toolbar but we swap the list of posts and our, well post create area.
Now we are missing links to access these routes though
because right now we can manually hardcode
the url
but that's not really how we want to navigate around,
instead it would be nicer if we had links in our header
and of course we can add such links here. In our header component,
we can wrap my messages here with a span like this
and then we can add another span where we handle or an unordered list where we handle our toolbar items.
So here we can add an unordered list with our list items and in that list item here I will have an anchor
tag which will not use the normal reference but instead the angular router link directive.
Now this is used by the angular router to turn this into a normal link where clicks are captured by the
angular router so that it can actually, well stop the default behavior of sending an http request
and actually just re-render the page for the page
we tried to visit. And here we could have a link to /create which we simply, well want to use to
add a new post.
Now the styling will be awful but we should be able to see that at least, here it is.
Now as I said, the styling is awful and my messages is not connected
so we should actually go back and also wrap this in an anchor tag with router link that leads to just
/nothing to load the root page
and then we can connect this too. Now if we go back,
well both looks awful but we can switch between these
but of course, well we need to work on that styling.
Let's do that in the next lecture.